Benchmarking Workflows in Cytosnake with Memray 📊 (#90)
WayScience/CytoPipe: docs/benchmarking.md

# Benchmarking Workflows

<!-- used for displaying doctree when selecting file -->
```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 4
```

## Introduction to Benchmarking with Cytosnake

> Cytosnake is a Python package known for it  collection of workflows designed for analyzing image-based profiles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cytosnake is a Python package known for its collection of workflows designed for analyzing image-based profiles.
```

To ensure these workflows perform at their best, it's essential to conduct benchmarking.
Benchmarking allows us to assess and optimize the efficiency and reliability of Cytosnake's image analysis processes.
This tutorial will guide you through the benchmarking process, helping you gauge and improve the performance of these image-based profiling workflows.

> Whether you're a developer seeking to enhance Cytosnake's functionalities or a user interested in its performance, this guide will equip you with the necessary knowledge.

Reviewer: Will the context of development for CytoSnake have any expectations when it comes to OS, resources, etc?

Author: Hey Dave, unfortunately I do not have an answer to this question right now. This could be due to how new this implementation is. My inital thought would be that it should work on all OS's and the Benchmarking repo should provide more information in terms or how the resources are used. 

In respect to the OS question, I don't have the unit/functional tests to back that up yet.

Reviewer: Thanks @axiomcura ! It might be useful to consider outlining what is expected to happen on how this influences benchmarking for CytoSnake. Specifically here I think about how MacOS vs Linux vs Windows might opt to parallelize or thread the work. It could be useful to know how and where the steps are accomplished at an abstract level (how steps sequence and/or parallelize) so as to inform users and also increase benchmarking understanding. This is more of a suggestion than a requirement for review, and I trust your best judgement here.

Here in Cytosnake, we use Memray to benchmark our workflows, making it a great tool for tackling memory usage issues, identifying memory leaks, and pinpointing code hotspots that result in excessive allocations.

> Memray's notable features include tracing every function call, handling native calls in C/C++ libraries, minimal application slowdown during profiling, generating diverse reports like flame graphs, compatibility with Python threads, and support for native threads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Memray's notable features include tracing every function call, handling native calls in C/C++ libraries, minimal application slowdown during profiling, diverse report generation like flame graphs, compatibility with Python threads, and support for native threads.
```

> 

Reviewer: Consider adding mentions about why `memray` is used in this way with CytoSnake. For example, what would happen if someone chose to use the command line `memray` without this configuration (would they receive an inaccurate or disorganized result)?

Author: added!

In this guide, you'll gain an understanding of how to conduct benchmarks with Cytosnake.
You'll learn not only on how to execute benchmarking but also how to interpret and make the most of the benchmarking outputs.

## Enable benchmarking in cytosnake

To enable benchmarking, modify the `config/configurational.yaml` file and opening it using your preferred text editor.
Once inside the config file, set the `enable_profiling` to `True`, informing CytoSnake that you intend to perform benchmarking on the workflow.

```yaml
enable_profiling: True
```

## Executing benchmarking

> This steps assumes that you've already initialized your data using the `cytosnake init` mode. To execute benchmarking, the process is as the same as running a typical workflow:

Reviewer: Consider one sentence per line here.

```bash
cytosnake run cp_process
```

Behind the scenes, benchmarking will be automatically initialized, and it will start benchmarking each step within the workflow.

> 

Reviewer: What happens if benchmarking is successful? Would it make sense to add some documentation mentioning where/how to assess things after executing?

## Plotting Benchmarks

> Coming soon.

Reviewer: Consider removing this section and adding it when ready with content (via an issue if it makes sense). Generally, to-do's in the form of merged content additions may sometimes be forgotten.
